# User Perceptions of Extraversion in Chatbots after Repeated Use
This is the source code for the personality imbued chatbots we developed as part of a research project at LMU Munich (Germany). This research project was published at <a href="https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3491102.3502058">CHI '22</a>. More details about the project as well as an extended description of the implementation may be found on the <a href="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/extraversion-chatbots">project website</a>.

## Abstract
Whilst imbuing robots and voice assistants with personality has been found to positively impact user experience, little is known about user perceptions of personality in purely text-based chatbots. In a within-subjects study, we asked N=34 participants to interact with three chatbots with different levels of Extraversion (extraverted, average, introverted), each over the course of four days. We systematically varied the chatbots' responses to manipulate Extraversion based on work in the psycholinguistics of human behaviour. Our results show that participants perceived the extraverted and average chatbots as such, whereas verbal cues transferred from human behaviour were insufficient to create an introverted chatbot. Whilst most participants preferred interacting with the extraverted chatbot, participants engaged significantly more with the introverted chatbot as indicated by the users' average number of written words. We discuss implications for researchers and practitioners on how to design chatbot personalities that can adapt to user preferences.

## Implementation
We developed the chatbots for the instant messaging application Telegram to support a platform-independent solution integrated in a messenger app that participants are familiar with. The chatbots were implemented in Python using the <code>python-telegram-bot</code> package, version 12.5, and the Telegram Bot API (Link). The chatbot ran on university servers. The implementation is based on the Experience Sampling chatbot we developed in [Draxler et al. 2022]. More details about the project as well as an extended description of the implementation may be found on the <a href="http://www.medien.ifi.lmu.de/extraversion-chatbots">project website</a>.

Please note that the current version of the chatbot implementation was intended for internal use only. We publish our source code to make the research accessible and transparent in the spirit of Open Science. That is, the source code is not documented in such a way that it can be easily reused. Whilst we intend to release a version in the future which will allow researchers to easily create their own experience sampling chatbots, this is not currently the case. In case of questions or interest in using our code, please contact the first author <a href="mailto:sarah.voelkel@ifi.lmu.de">Sarah Theres Völkel</a>.

## References
Sarah Theres Völkel, Ramona Schoedel, Lale Kaya, and Sven Mayer. User Perceptions of Extraversion in Chatbots after Repeated Use. 2022. In CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, pp. 1-18. DOI: 10.1145/3491102.3502058

Fiona Draxler, Linda Hirsch, Jingyi Li, Carl Oechsner, Sarah Theres Völkel, and Andreas Butz. Flexibility and Social Disconnectness: Assessing University Students’ Well-Being Using an Experience Sampling Chatbot and Surveys Over Two Years of COVID-19. 2022. In DIS '22: ACM Conference on Designing Interactive Systems. DOI: 10.1145/1122445.1122456.
